# Clayton's 1brc

Inspired by https://github.com/gunnarmorling/1brc.

# Leaderboard

### Single-Threaded Leaderboard

| Rank | Name           | Best Time     | Language |
|------|----------------|---------------|----------|
| 1    | Claytdog       | 6.5s          | Rust     |
| 2    | jtstogel       | ~10s          | Rust     |
| 3    | 🅱️andrew       | 28s           | Rust     |
| 4    | simple\_parser | 62s           | Rust     |
| 5    | Pkmalloc       | 165s          | Java     |

### Multi-Threaded Leaderboard

| Rank | Name | Best Time (s) | Language |
|------|------|---------------|----------|
| 1    | -    | -             | -        |

## Rules

- All programming languages allowed.
- No external libraries that help in nontrivial ways.
  - Utility libraries are allowed.
  - If unsure, ask.
- The rounding of output values must be done using the semantics of IEEE 754 rounding-direction "roundTowardPositive".

## How to structure your program

You should write a program that takes a single command line argument `--input <input_file>`, which is a path to the file you need to parse and print a summary of. For example:

```bash
./my_program --input ./measurements.txt
```

Your program should print a summary of the measurements to stdout. It should print the min/mean/max temperature value recorded per weather station in the input file, like this:

```
{Abha=-23.0/18.0/59.2, Abidjan=-16.2/26.0/67.3, Abéché=-10.0/29.4/69.0, Accra=-10.1/26.4/66.4, Addis Ababa=-23.7/16.0/67.0, Adelaide=-27.8/17.3/58.5, ...}
```

Note that the weather stations should be sorted alphabetically.

## Input file format

You'll be given a file of newline-separated rows, where each row contains the name of a weather station and a temperature reading at that weather station, separated by a semicolon. The last row of the file will be followed by a newline.

For example, the input file may look like this:

```
Abha;-23.0
Abidjan;29.4
...
```

You may assume the following about the format of the input file:

- The input file is well-formatted and adheres to the following restrictions.
- The whole input file is valid UTF-8.
- The name of weather stations is anywhere between 2 - 50 bytes long, and does not contain ';' or '\n' characters.
  - note: bytes, not characters, which may differ for non-ascii unicode.
- Temperature readings are between -99.9 and 99.9 (inclusive), always with one fractional digit.
- There is a maximum of 10,000 unique weather stations.

Note that your code must work on any file that follows this format, but you may take advantage of the weather stations being chosen from `data/weather_stations.csv`. Optimizations that are tailored for this set of stations are encouraged, but you may not assume the names are from this file.

## Generating sample input files

You can generate sample input files by running this binary locally. This will generate a file with `--records` rows (default 1 billion), having `--unique-cities` cities (default 10k), and the file will be saved as `--output` (default `measurements.txt`).

Example:

```bash
cargo r --release -- --records 10000 --unique-cities 100 --output measurements_10k.txt
```

In the end, everyone's submissions will be run with a file generated by the following command:

```bash
cargo r --release
```

This file will have 1 billion rows and contain 10,000 unique cities.

## Testing

I haven't set up any testing framework, but I've provided an example program in examples/ that you can verify the output of your program against. As long as the outputs match exactly, your code is correct.

You can run the example with:

```bash
cargo r --release --example simple_parser [-- --input <input_file>]
```

## Measurement

Be sure to measure your program on my desktop (ask me for login credentials if you don't have them).

Measurements should be made with the `time` utility, and using the `total` time reported (user + system).

## Installing FlameGraph

Run the following:

```bash
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/brendangregg/FlameGraph.git
echo "export PATH=\"\$PATH:$(pwd)/FlameGraph\"" >> ~/.bashrc
```
